Overflowing the Buffer
In the previous example, we only
wrote 12 bytes out of the available 64
so the program ran and
exited cleanly as expected.
However,
the offset between the buffer address
and the main function return address
is 76 bytes, which is equal
to 4C in hex.
So if we supply 80 “A”’s as an argument,
they should all be copied onto the stack
and write past the bounds
of the  assigned buffer
into the target return address.
To do this, we can reopen the
application from the File menu
and enter 80 A’s for the Argument.
Now let’s find the string
copy function again.
Since immunity debugger saves breakpoints
accross different debugging sessions
our breakpoint is still set on
the call to string copy.
We’ll press F9 to run the program
until the breakpoint is hit.
We have hit our breakpoint so we’ll step
into the string copy function with F7.
Then we’ll execute up to the
return instruction with control-F9.
If we continue the execution with F7
and proceed to the RETN instruction
in the main function,
the overwritten return address,
part of our string of A’s,
will be popped into EIP.
At this point, the CPU tries to read
the next instruction from 41414141,
the hex representation
of our string of A’s.
Since this is not a valid address
in the process memory space,
the CPU triggers an access violation,
which crashes the application.
Once again, it’s important to keep in mind
that the EIP register is used by the CPU
to direct code execution at
the assembly level.
Therefore, obtaining reliable
control of EIP
would allow us to execute any assembly
code we want, even shellcode
to obtain a reverse shell in the
context of the vulnerable application.
In this module, we presented the
basic principles behind a
buffer overflow attack.
Specifically, we demonstrated
how to control EIP.
In later modules we’ll demonstrate how
to exploit a similar vulnerability.